Dear Dana, 


Please accept this as my formal notice of resignation from LAW.

I hoped to clarify some of the reasons behind my decision. On the surface of it, I was given a task that I considered unfair for several reasons. First, the task was clearly the responsibility of the lawyers or legal officers. It seems that I was asked to improve on it because it had not been done to the expected standard. Second, it was an immense task. While I am usually willing to help out and wear different hats, this task required me to go back through 300+ pages of legal case documents to fill in missing fields and correct language and phrasing. 

There are several issues with this; first, Fatima proposed a week to do this, which seems like an incredibly short period given that I have other reporting duties. Second, it is an extremely inefficient way to go about this task since I have absolutely no information on these cases beyond what’s written, meaning that I will have to call a lawyer for clarification on almost every page (wouldn’t it be easier for the lawyer to make the edits?) Finally, I was not given a very clear explanation about what was wrong with the legal language. For 300 pages of editing, I would be left guessing about what to change, and what to keep, what is correct, and what is incorrect. This seems incredibly inefficient and stressful to me.

The third reason I consider this task unfair is because it did not appear to me to serve a very important purpose or bear a direct relation to my work. We have, apparently, lived with these legal case documents for more than a year, and this was not an issue or it was not flagged (to me, at least). I do not use these case files in my own donor reporting, because I rely on different reports provided by the lawyers. We have other monitoring and evaluation tools to report on the success of our legal aid to donors. 

The reason I bring this up is because it relates directly to the broader reason of why I have chosen to move on from LAW. Given the nature of the managerial structure in the Lebanon office, employees have no safeguards against arbitrary assignments that may truly serve no purpose other than presenting a polished image to the global organization. While there is nothing inherently wrong with pursuing quality, I believe this should be achieved through proper channels like hiring a sufficient number of qualified people who have a strong command of language and ensuring that they do their work to the required standard. Any shortcomings should not be arbitrarily passed over to another employee without regard for the toll this will take on them. I believe it is a serious issue that at the Lebanon office we have no safeguards against this sort of practice because of the oversimplified decision-making structure. 

I am a person who does good work, but who also values their work, time and the cognitive effort expended. For this reason, I have decided to seek opportunities elsewhere, where these issues have been recognized and addressed. I hope that my point of view can be used to build an organizational structure that promotes greater accountability to employees, especially local employees who may not have the same resources or safety nets to afford to bring up such issues.


Thank you for your ongoing and hard work in HR, and best wishes for a bright and happy carerer and future.


Sincerely,



Nour Aoude

